.. QGreenland documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Dec  6 11:34:57 2021.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. toctree::
    :name: Main TOC
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 1

    acknowledgements.md
    contributing.md

.. toctree::
    :name: How-to
    :caption: How-to
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:

    contributor-how-to/index
    user-how-to/index


.. toctree::
    :name: Reference
    :hidden:
    :caption: Reference
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:

    reference/glossary/index
    reference/architecture/index
    reference/api/index
    reference/*


What is QGreenland?
===================

TEST5

QGreenland is a free and open-source Greenland-focused GIS environment for data
analysis and viewing, powered by `QGIS <https://qgis.org>`_. QGreenland is
delivered in two ways:

1. as a large Zip package containing a core set of data curated to serve the
   majority of users; and

2. as a QGIS plugin for downloading a custom set of data, including data which
   isn't part of the Zip package (for example, due to filesize constraints).


The QGreenland Project
======================

Greenland-focused research, planning, and education crosses disciplinary
boundaries. With QGreenland, a free data-viewing platform, anyone can explore a
wide variety of Greenland-focused data identified by an `expert team and
Editorial Board <https://qgreenland.org/our-team>`_. 

QGreenland is a United States National Science Foundation EarthCube-funded
effort (award #\ `1928393
<https://nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1928393&HistoricalAwards=false>`_).
Project development began in 2019, led by the `National
Snow and Ice Data Center <https://nsidc.org/>`_, which is a part of the
University of Colorado Boulder `Cooperative Institute for Research in
Environmental Sciences <https://cires.colorado.edu/>`_. The project is made
possible through the generous efforts of a wide range of collaborators.

The QGreenland Team believes in open and accessible resources. QGreenland is
built using free and open software, with development tools and workflows fully
documented on our `Github page <https://github.com/nsidc/qgreenland>`_. We also
believe in FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, reproducible) data and
strive to include clear information about original data sources and complete
metadata. To the best of our ability, we aim to include data that are already
free and publicly archived.

As QGreenland development continues, we will be expanding our educational
resources, increasing optional data download options, and working to be as
responsive as possible to user feedback. We look forward to `hearing from you
<qgreenland.info@gmail.com>`_.



Citing QGreenland
=================

We request that QGreenland be cited or acknowledged when publishing a
QGreenland-made image or map. 

Citation:

    Moon, T., M. Fisher, L. Harden, & T. Stafford (2021). QGreenland
    (v1.0.1) [software]. Available from https://qgreenland.org.
    https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4558266.

Acknowledgement:

    We acknowledge the National Snow and Ice Data Center QGreenland package.


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
